---
title: 2020-09-08 Outreach Meeting
authors: [enarx]
tags: [Meeting]
---
# Present
Ben  
Mike D.  
Mike B.  
Shaun  
axel

# Agenda
## House keeping
Move to meeting fortnightly?
- yes

Use github issues to track tasks?
- yes  
ACTION: @axelsimon to check with @mbestavros best way to do that

## Events
### OSS Europe
Waiting for news tomorrow.

## Enarx short stories
LinkedIn etc.

ACTION: ensure Enarx organisation exists @axelsimon  
ACTION: create an issue to track creation of set of questions @m-dombrowski  
ACTION: create one issue per interviewee @m-dombrowski

## Confidential Computing Consortium
### Outreach bureau?
Quote was too high in Ben's opinion. More to come.