---
title: 2021-03-30 Outreach Meeting
authors: [enarx]
tags: [Meeting]
---
# Present
Mike B  
Ben  
Shaun  
axel

# Agenda
## General discussion
Mike made current funding situation public in [a tweet](https://twitter.com/enarxproject/status/1376207843334971397)

TODO: create a FUNDING.md file for the repo.

## Events
### RH Summit - Community Central
one thing left to do: staff the booths

### RSA 2020
Mike and Nathaniel recording session today.