---
title: 2021-02-02 Outreach Meeting
authors: [enarx]
tags: [Meeting]
---
2021-02-02
# Present
Mike B  
Adam  
Ben  
axel

# Agenda
## General discussion
Lots of events, meeting more industry people (or meeting again).

## Events

TODO: announce these on LinkedIn, Twitter @fischsec @mikecamel @axelsimon

### CCC Webinar
attendees?
- 70 live questions
- 2 people joining the chat after the event
post-event views?

### RSA
Mike has signed us up: https://www.rsaconference.com/experts/mike-bursell
3 talks and a panel! (no Hugh Grant, however)

Talks must be Mike + Nathaniel.


TODO:

### Fosdem 2021
Talk submitted.
TODO: can we bridge the matrix room for the TEE devroom to an Enarx rocket chat ad-hoc room? @axelsimon

### DevConf

### OC3
http://www.oc3.dev
Want "deep dive" level folks / presentation

## CCC news
- Change of CCC Outreach Committee chair. Fortanix person.